it is now full summer and permanently
light the Sun will not set for another
five months at this time of year the
forest floor around the nests comes
alive with polar insects like this
wetter out hunting for food among the
leaf litter they themselves are food for
larger animals like the tuatara it is a
reptile but one surviving from a time
long before the dinosaurs
it will remain long after them too
clinging on in the land will become the
islands of new zealand out in the open
the mutter barosaurus herd is being
tormented by bloodsuckers summer brings
out swarms of biting flies and although
dinosaurs are covered in tough scaly
skin they do have softer parts the
insects concentrate on areas like the
inside of the ear where their mouths can
pierce the skin and suck out a meal
[Music]
these swarms can drive their gigantic
hosts wild and soon the herd has to move
away from the river on the banks of the
river an old mutter barosaurus has been
brought down and a male alisov feeds off
the rotting flesh
[Music]
the polar Alice or is a smaller
descendant of the great carnivores of
the Jurassic fifty million years before
his type a rare in the Cretaceous but
they survive here at the South Pole
[Music]
in the time of dinosaurs Antarctica
suffers regular summer thunderstorms but
sweep across the polar forest causing
widespread flooding
[Music]
these floods drive forest creatures
together and this can lead to
confrontation the Llewellyn essaouira
have spotted a rival clan and it is
enough to trigger an aggressive response
each clan must defend its area of forest
so it does not face competition for food
it is crucial that the interlopers are
put off by a convincing show of strength
[Music]
it has worked the rivals retreat and for
the moment the clans territory is safe
[Applause]
after the rains the floodwaters quickly
subside and dinosaurs can return to the
riverbanks to feed
when there is plenty of food herbivores
can be very tolerant at each other as
the matter barosaurus pluck and tear at
the Polo car please the Jelena saw a
scamper among them gathering up the red
fruit that gets scattered on the ground
[Applause]
although a risky harvest the clan must
take every opportunity the forest offers
because time is running out
the seasons draw on and for the first
time in four months the Sun sets autumn
has arrived and the forest prepares for
a polo winter
[Music]
up and down the river valleys the mutter
barosaurus
cents the change and begin their long
trek north
[Music]
occasionally some of these giant
migrants get lost in the forest
but what for them is a minor problem can
mean life or death for the lee allen
essaouira clan the noise these huge
herbivores make prevents the Llewellyn
essaouira century from hearing other
more threatening sounds
[Music]
[Applause]
the giant carnivore has killed the
dominant female it is a bitter blow
winter is coming
but without a lead female there will be
tension in the clan
[Music]
the low-light also triggers a change in
the forest plants they stopped growing
and photosynthesis grinds to a halt some
will shed their leaves others will just
lie dormant the Llewellyn essaouira now
have to work extra hard to find food
searching for fungus and nutritious
roots beneath the forest floor
towards the end of autumn the last day
passes in a few minutes and the long
Twilight begins
life in the polar forest faces its
biggest killer freezing temperatures
[Music]
in the winter sky the Southern Lights
whip and flicker over the silent Forest
you